# my-CERN-research-project
This repository contains some of my code, my presentation with my mathematical derivations, result figures for my research project at CERN "Novel investigations on vertical two-phase CO2 flow to automatically identify the flow patterns and produce flow regime maps by using pattern recognition algorithms on high speed camera images for the new generation CO2 cooling systems of the ATLAS Experiment". I developped image processing, machine learning & data science applications such as geometric-based rotation invariant pattern detection algorithms, Monte Carlo simulations, and ANN to reconstruct 3D bubbles and to determine void fraction ratio. PLEASE CHECK MY PRESENTATION TO SEE THE OVERVIEW AND DETAILS.

My first implementation to improve the results of existing gas void fraction estimation pipeline is 'Rotation Invariant, Geometric Ellipse Fitting'. On preprocessed 2D bubbly flow images, detecting bubbles by using ellipse detection algorithms are crucial part of gas void fraction estimation pipeline. In 2D, the classical least square algorithm finds a curve that minimizes the sum of the squares of the vertical distances from the data points to the curve. In contrast, the geometric fitting finds the curve that minimizes the sum of the squares of the orthogonal distances from the data points to the curve (which is equivalent to minimize the Geometric Root Mean Square Error - Geometric RMSE) in stead of vertical distances. So, geometric fitting is coordinate system invariant. 

ROTATION INVATIANT GEOMETRIC ELLIPSE FITTING
coordinateInvariantEllipseFit.m is a function that is ready to use for Rotation Invariant Ellipse Fitting with real data. This function uses ellipseParametersCalculation.m function to calculate the ellipse parameters from the general quadric equation of ellipse.

mainSyntheticDataCoordinateInvariantEllipseFit.m can be used use for Rotation Invariant Ellipse Fitting with synthetic data. First, it creates the data by using ellipticDataGenerator.m then fits the ellipse by using coordinateInvariantEllipseFit.m.

MONTE CARLO SIMULATIONS & ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
mainGenerateEllipsoid.m is a function that creates Monte Carlo Simulations with different models. It creates ellipsoids and their projections in random directions and fits models to solve an inverse problem (from projections to find out the mean ellipsoids) specifically for bubbly two phase flow.

generatingRandomUnitProjectionVectors.m is a function that generates random unit projection vectors in spherical coordinates. The projection vectors can be expressed as points on a unit sphere. The probability density function is increasing with the increasing polar angle to maintain uniform probability per unit spherical portion.

ANNmyNeuralNetworkFunctionClassic.m or ANNmyNeuralNetworkFunctionMatrixOnly.m can be used for the volume estimation. The neural networks are trained by the output - 1 million ellipsoids that were generated by my Monte Carlo Simulations and input - the major & minor axes of the projected ellipses of them. 

The list of references can be found in the presentation. In the references folder, there is my derivations, 'Hakki Karaman's Derivations for Trivariate Implicit Full Quadric Surface Fitting (Taubin's Method)'. Here, my implementation is a 2D reduced version of 3D equations.
